# Sea-ice rheology emulation
## *Max Thomas*

## Overview
Here, we aim at deriving a cheap replacement for the most expensive component in sea-ice models.

Climate and weather models contain a sea-ice model. These sea-ice models contain a 'rheology' routine that calculates the velocity of sea ice at time *t+1* from inputs (such as the wind stress) at *t* for each model grid cell. The rhology solves the sea-ice momentum equation, typically requiring hundreds of iterations of a numerical solver for each grid cell. This is computationally expensive, and results in the rheology being the most expensive model component.

The cost of the rheology limits the amount of simulation that can be performed with weather and climate models. For some rheologies, proper convergence of the solver would require a prohibitive number of iterations, and the momentum equation is not properly solved.

We show below that a simple neural network can accurately emulate the behavior of the rheology solver with a precision of ?! % of the velocity.

## Training data
Data for training were generated by running NEMO+SI3 under historical forcing for one year. Timestep frequency data were gathered for SI3 outputs. There are 3 runs available, each with different rheological namelist parameters.
| suite id  | rheology  | iterations |
|-----------|-----------|------------|
| u-dq557   | EVP       | 120        |
| u-dr710   | EVP       | 1200       |
| u-dr835   | aEVP      | 100        |

u-dq557 and u-dr835 have standard values for the number of solver iterations. aEVP is expected to converge in 100 iterations, while EVP likely only converges some of the time. u-dr710 should have better convergence than u-dq557. 

These data stored on Mass, with normal outputs in the structured partition according to the suite id, and timestep frequency data in /user/max.thomas/

## Results
Initial results are for one day of u-dq557 data

## Directory structure


## Future work
- Train over whole globe and whole year
- Train for each rheology formulation
- Extend dataset with cutout rhology solver